Explanations:

mkdir -p backup 
This command creates the backup directory if it does not already exist. 
The -p option prevents an error if the directory is already present. 

find submissions -type f
This command searches the submissions directory and lists all regular files. 
It ensures that only files are processed and not directories. 

md5sum filename
This command generates the MD5 checksum of a file. 
Files with identical checksums are considered duplicate submissions. 

cp filename backup/
This command copies unique files into the backup directory. 
It ensures that only one copy of each unique submission is stored. 

2>> errors.log
This redirects error messages (standard error) to the errors.log file. 
It keeps the terminal output clean while preserving error details for troubleshooting. 

> report.txt
This clears the existing report file before generating a new report. 
It prevents previous results from being mixed with the current execution. 

chmod +x duplicate_backup.sh
This command grants execute permission to the shell script. 
Without this permission, the script cannot be run directly.

./duplicate_backup.sh
This executes the shell script from the current directory. 
It processes all submission files, detects duplicates, creates backups, logs errors, 
and generates the report.



Justifying the Linux commands, redirection operators, and file-handling techniques used 
in my solution:

Justification:

find
Used to recursively locate all submission files.
Efficient for processing large numbers of student submissions.

md5sum
Generates a unique checksum for each file.
Enables reliable detection of duplicate files.

cp
Copies only unique files to the backup directory.
Preserves the original submissions.

mkdir -p
Creates the backup directory safely without producing an error if it already exists.


Redirection operators:

> creates or overwrites a file.
>> appends data to a file.
2>> redirects only error messages to a separate log file.


File-handling techniques:
Variables are used for directory and file names, making the script easy to modify.
Associative arrays store file hashes to identify duplicates efficiently.
Separate report and error log files improve readability and simplify troubleshooting.


using process substitution (done < <(...)) instead of a 
pipe allows the loop to update variables in the current shell, 
so the counters retain their values after the loop finishes.
